Lab5 fixed (#1)
myPar/NSU_Networks: lab5.md

# lab5 - SOCKSv5 Proxy

> ## Lab Description

Reviewer: не понятно зачем на английском, ну да ладно

> _Proxy server of standart SOCKS (version 5) which supports one command - "establish a TCP/IP stream connection". Handling of several clients is implemented using default Java-API (see: Selector, SelectionKey, SelectableChannel etc. in Java API references)._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This project implements a proxy server based on SOCKS5 v5 protocol, which can serve multiple clients and which supports a single command "establish a TCP/IP stream connection". Implementation uses standard Java APIs wherever possible and appropriate - Selector, SelectionKey, SelectableChannel etc. 
```

> ### Proxying

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Server - client(s) interaction
```

Author: Взаимодействие клиента и сервера - более общее понятие. Проксирование - это именно переброска трафика между клиентом и удалённым хостом через прокси-сервер, когда клиент и сервер уже обменялись приветственными сообщениями и запросами.

> A little about proxying:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main scenario of the proxy server interacting with clients is described below. The medium for communication is the SOCKSv5 protocol, which is overviewed further in the document. The server and clients can reside anywhere in a world-wide-web|wide area network|local area network. - Здесь нужно объяснить на ограничения в каких сетях это работает.
```

Author: исправил

1. Server accepts new Client
2. Client sends to server a 'connection request' which contains dst-host address and port.
3. Server establishes a connection to dst host.

> 4. Proxying starts - server implements data traversing between dst-host and client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Proxying starts - server implements data tunneling between dst-host and the client.
```

Author: исправил

### SOCKSv5 protocol
See full protocol description [here](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc1928.txt) or on [wikipedia](https://ru.wikipedia.org/wiki/SOCKS). 

> 1. The Client sends "Hello" message to Server, which contains protocol version (5 in our case), and numbers of supported authentication methods. 

Reviewer: 1 2 3 4 5 - это последовательность чего? Более детальное описание шагов выше? Тогда делают так

#### Server accepts new Client
<детальное описание, возможно включающее основные используемые API вызовы - to get XXX, YYY Java API is used>
#### 'connection request' and address assignments
<детальное описание>
 и т.п.

Author: исправил

> 2. Server responses with message which contains protocol version and number of choosen authentication method. 

Reviewer: зачем клиенту  protocol version and number of choosen authentication method? надо добавить, либо не описывать эти детали. "Server responses with a message which contains details necessary for communication."

Author: исправил

3. Then the Client sends 'Connection request' message which contains 'command code' (0x01 - 'establish TCP/IP connection' in our case), 'dst address type', 'dst address value' and 'dst port number'. 
4. Server established connection to dst host and sends response to the Client - with the same data as in client request except that instead of 'command code' there is 'response code' (0x00 in casse of success)
5. Then proxying starts

___
<a href="https://imgbb.com/"><img src="https://i.ibb.co/pvF0rsH/sequence.png" alt="sequence" border="0"></a>
___

> 

Reviewer: Один важный момент упущен - сколько потоков на сервере (один, НЯП), и как организавана обработка множественных запросов в этом одном потоке. Типа
The proxy sever runs all communication with the clients in a single thread. Client processing is organized in "rounds". In each round server obtains outstanding requests from clients, then processes them one by one. While server is busy processing clients, new requests coming from clients are buffered by the Java runtime network layer, so that next time sever gets to polling for outstanding requests, it gets what has been buffered while the server was busy. Each client must wait for its current request to be processed by server before issuing the next (или нет - это надо описать).

Author: исправил

### Components

> __Server__ - Initialize ServerSocketChannel instance wich will be used for accepting new clients. Contains main client handling method - _handleClients()_ where calls _select()_ method and handle channels whose keys were returned by this method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
__Server__ - Owns single ServerSocketChannel instance which is used for accepting new clients. Implements main client handling method - _handleClients()_. This method processes client requests in an infinite loop: on each loop iteration using <чей это метод-то?>_select()_ method it polls for clients ready to communicate. _select_ returns a key which the server then uses to ... .
```

Author: исправил

> __HandlerFactory__ - depending on the channel state _getHandler(SelectionKey key)_ method returns corresponding handler as an instance of the _Handler_ interface. For channel's handling - the _handle(SelectionKey key)_ method is invoked.

Reviewer: Если у канала (какого, кстати - ServerSocketChannel ? если так, то пишешь в месте первого использования ServerSocketChannel (or simply "channel")) есть состояния, то надо их описать сначала либо написать "depending on the channel state (see description of the states in section #ref)"

Author: исправил

> __HandlerFactory__ - depending on the channel state _getHandler(SelectionKey key)_ method returns corresponding handler as an instance of the _Handler_ interface. For channel's handling - the _handle(SelectionKey key)_ method is invoked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
__HandlerFactory__ -  Provides handlers for different selection keys (see description below) via _getHandler(SelectionKey key)_ method. This method, depending on the channel state, returns corresponding handler as an instance of the _Handler_ interface. Each handler processes client's requests via the _handle(SelectionKey key)_ method.
```

Author: исправил

__SOCKSv5__ - contains constans of SOCKSv5 protocol; also contains methods for parsing and getting the messages data: _InitRequest_, _InitResponse_, _ConnectRequest_ and _ConnectResponse_ messages

> __BaseAttachment__ - Base key attachment class. Contains definition of key states (enum) and state field (for object). Using in _getHandler()_ method of ___HandlerFactory___ class. And anywhere where just channel state is needed.

Reviewer: Что такое приложения и зачем они нужны - описать на абстрактном уровне.

Author: исправил

__CompleteAttachment__ - more complex type of attachment. Extended the ___BaseAttachment___ class. Contains input/output ByteBuffer object for sending and receiving data. Also contains link to remote channel. Some info about 'connection request' and dst host address. Needed when keys with states  _ConnectionRequest_, _ConnectionResponse_, _Proxying_ and _FinishConnection_ are handled.

__Handler__ - interface which contains only one method - _handle(SelectionKey)_. Handlers of all types are implement it.
___
<a href="https://ibb.co/6tDbNzf"><img src="https://i.ibb.co/qgm9xKP/uml.png" alt="uml" border="0"></a><br /><a target='_blank' href='https://ru.imgbb.com/'></a><br />
___

### Workflow

> + Server starts and initialize ServerSocketChannel which will be accepting new clients. Server register it in the selector on _OP_ACCEP_.

Reviewer: Это повторение во многом предыдущего. Лучше как я сказал - сначала скелет сценария, потом расписываешь каждый пункт сценария в отдельном параграфе с соотв. заголовком. Так избежишь повторений. Представь, что потом дизайн какого-то пункта изменится, и придется править в 10 местах.

Author: исправил

2. Server responses with message wich contains choosen authentication method. 
3. Then the Client sends 'Connection request' message which contains command he wants the server to execute (in our case this is _'establish a TCP/IP stream connection'_) and destination host info - address, port and the type of the address (domain name, IPv4 or IPv6).
4. Server executes command (establishes connection to dst host in our case) and sends response to the Client - with the same data as in client's request except that instead of command there is a response status - ither 'success' status or exception info.
5. If no exception was occured proxying starts.

___
<a href="https://imgbb.com/"><img src="https://i.ibb.co/pvF0rsH/sequence.png" alt="sequence" border="0"></a>
___

### Workflow
Here are the stages of server's workflow. Each stage has its own detailed description below.
1. [Server initializing](#server-initializing).
2. [Accepting new client](#accepting-new-client).
3. [Handle accepted clients](#handle-accepted-clients).
4. [Proxying](#proxying)
5. [Сompletion of client handling](#completion-of-client-handling).

> 

Reviewer: в таких ситуациях псевдо код показывающий алгоритм "с 10км" очень полезен.
```
initialize_server(); // here XXX and YYY APIs are called to do ZZZ

// this is a set of currently active clients
active_clients = {};

// once initialization is done, start serving clients until server shut down
while (!server_shutdown_requested()) {
    // reveal new clients and start serving them. XXX API used to find clients requesting connection
    new_clients = poll_for_new_connection_requests_and_return_accepted_clients();

    // and newly revealed clients to the set of active clients which will be served by <handle_client>
    active_clients.merge(new_clients);
    
    // ...
    foreach client in active_clients {
      handle_result = handle_client(client);

      if (handle_result is "client disconnected or done") {
        active_clients.remove(client);
      }
   }
}
```
как-то так? Можно добавить, что так как в одном потоке, то синхронизация не нужна.
Подход с одним потоком, очевидно, плох с точки зрения масштабируемости - т.е. при превышении нек. числа клиентов все перестанет работать. Такие фундаментальные ограничения надо понимать и описывать.

#### Server Initializing

> Server starts and initialize ServerSocketChannel. This channel is registered in the selector on [OP_ACCEPT](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/nio/channels/SelectionKey.html). Then _handleClients()_ method invokes. This method contains an infinite loop where the _select()_ method of the selector call occurs. _select()_ method returns key-set of the registered in selector channels which are ready for the operations. At server start only ServerSocketChannel is registered in the selector.

Reviewer: "the selector" - непонятно что это
